# TestostoroneAnalysis
### Background
Research has shown that the main component of marijuana, THC, has a regulatory effect on the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, which regulates the release of sex hormones such as testorone.  Many studies have researched the effect of regular marijuana usage on testosterone level, though findings are inconsistent. This study aims to contribute and expand to the current research on the effects of marijuanna on testosterone levels, for both people assigned male and female at birth. 
### Methods
Our study population consisted of 10,000 individuals resampled from the 2009-2010 and 2011-2012 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), a cross-sectional survey that assesses the health of US citizens. After excluding missing data and restricting our data to age 18-59 years old, our final study population was of 2,247 participants. Average testosterone levels and its association with regular marijuana use was assessed using multiple linear regression models, adjusted for potential confounding variables.
### Results
The mean age was 39 years old, mean testosterone levels 233 ng/dL, and the sex distribution was 53% male and 47% female. Comparing our study population to the data with missing observations, there was significant differences in sex, race, depression, testosterone, and height between the two datasets. For the population studied, a male subject that claims to use marijuana regularly has a 0.04 log(ng/dL) higher non-significant adjusted association with log-adjusted Testosterone level (or 1.041 ng/dL higher testosterone level) compared to one who claims to not engage in regular Marijuana use (p = 0.14 > 0.05). 
### Conclusion
The key finding of our experiment is that contrary to our expectation, history of regular use of marijuana did not make a significant impact on the testosterone level measured from the subjects. Demographic and health factors such as age, sex, race, weight, and height are signficant predictors of testosterone levels. To further delineate the relationship between marijuana and testosterone, additional studies with more complete data on marijuana use (frequency, current/past use) and a study population that is representative of the U.S. population are needed.   

Full discussion of the project can be viewed here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1b7cqmTXBomKxLDkV8S4yJTkY0krD-wf-qIPgWgXVAXA/edit?usp=sharing
